Log:
Turion 64 in a socket 754 Desktop Motherboard.

Motherboard: Gigabyte GA-k8NS (Not pro)
Old Processor: AMD Sempron 2800+ (No CnQ)

Target CPU: ML-30

The site http://angelfall.s39.xrea.com/area2ch/turion-e.html suggested that the K8NS-Pro (a later board) worked with this CPU. Okay. I was inspired by the infamous SilentPcReview article - AMD Turion 64 on the Desktop.

The CPU was purchased for £65 from eBay, still sealed in its static bag. Which of course I soon opened.

My fan is a geniune AMD fan - the recommended one that came boxed with the Sempron. I will admit to not being sure what the TDP for the Sempron 2800+ is (I will look it up and add the figures later) but I am sure it is much more than the Turion (62 w - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_AMD_Sempron_microprocessors#Sempron_.22Palermo.22_.28Socket_754.2C_90_nm.29) . Besides - the Turion will do much more for me. Bigger cache, faster processing (with 3000+ rating although it is still a 1.6ghz clock) and 64 bit(it there is ever any software to run on that mode).

My first hurdle, was that the sempron had stuck firmly to the recommended AMD fan. This meant having to put in a good vertical tug to get it out of the board (as I could not operate the lever below this large heatsink) and then find a way to seperate the two. Whew- no apparent bent or broken sempron pins. Now at this point I have come too far to want to go back...

My plan was simple - instead of the suggestions of running "Prime 95" until the CPU got hot, I used careful application of a travel iron to the heatsink to warm up the thermal paste, and separate the two parts. This worked beautifully. It did not take much, and I was careful not to heat up the CPU too much. Not sure what to do with that next, but I will figure something out.

Now- the matter of the heat spreader... You see- as thh SilentPCReview artical points out, unlike the Sempron, the Turion 64 does not come with a heat spreader - or even some foamy stands like the old Athlon/Duron types. This means that with the pressure applied by the springs in the AMD heatsink, the die could crack and break - not good, not at all. 

I had a couple of options left here. 
First - I could pilfer the foam pads from a dormant Duron 900 I happened to have around (in fact there might be a D600), and use those as spacers. I could then smother it in thermal paste, and then press down the fan onto it. However, the fan/heatsink is still a bit large. I started to eye up the Fan that accompanied the Duron, an wander if there was a way to mechanically attach that to the board... Much smaller fan, much smaller heatsink, but this is for a much smaller chip. I could even go as far as mounting a small GFX Card heatsink/fan arrangement instead.

Hmm - not sure about that - maybe what I need is some sort of gasket - to put the pressure from the heatsink onto, and then put the paste into the middle of. The gasket clearly has to be able to deal with about 65 degrees C (although I hope the CPU will never run at such temperatures) and it must be tall enough to clear the heatsink of possible damage to the die, as well as not having it so far that thermal contact is poor.
My plan is to use some paper, and plenty of HTC.  This worked.

Now to fit it, and turn it on. 
The Mobo recognized it straight away. However - the heat started climbing immediately. Better power down and check that there is good thermal contact. More HTC later - try again - and again. watch the health like a hawk. Now the article on SilentPCReview as a warning about the CPU being over-volted - I had better check this out..

It was an auto, and I set it to the recommended 1.35 v. So far, so good. I booted my OS. The first thing I note is the speed is reported as 800 Mhz (half of its actual potential), and that no steping seems to be permitted. I reboot, and use the BIOS to change the multiplier. x8 was not good - although an FSB at 200 with a CPU mp of x8 should be 1.6ghz (the actual speed of the CPU), it would turn itself off after about a minute. So I tried a few settings, and so far x7 seemed the fastest stable setting - 1.4Ghz. 

The BIOS did not show any setting to enable powernow or CnQ. I then booted the OS, and tried to load the powernow-k8 module, and received the message "Device not found". Checking the DMESG log, there were a number of interesting messages, but the end result - no CnQ or powernow. 

The OS was running just fine though, but I felt that at 1.4 Ghz I was not getting the full potential out of this. The temperature was really, really good, between 32 and 35 degrees C.

I then went to the Gigabyte site, to get the latest flash code. This comes in the form of a self-extracting RAR. I unrared this, grabbed a Freedos boot image, and tailored the boot disk. I used a "Ripcord" boot disk, mounted it as a loopback vfat device, and then copied the flash files (an autoexec, a flash utility and the image) to the disk image, and then built a bootable CD using the image. I booted off the CD, flashed the BIOS, and rebooted....

DISASTER!
The motherboard would no longer boot. It was showing (on screen) the graphics card booting, then switching itself off. No beep codes, just power off. I had a sneaking suspicion that the new update (F19 - only marked on the gigabyte site as "CPU Codes") might no longer support the Turion. My next step (for tomorrow) is to try putting the sempron back in, booting, and if it boots, then reverting to the F18 BIOS it was running before.
